I believe the biggest and most positive impact I can have on society is to
become a professor — a great communicator of complex ideas. My training is in
Math & CS, with an emphasis on theory and logic. After time in industry and
much self exploration, my focus has shifted to linguistics. It is my intention
to apply my talents in formal systems to this subject, which I see as
fundamental to the human experience.

In 2018 I left Google. After promotions and much success, I had finished what I
came to do: gain experience, collect capital, and get a taste of working in
industry.

Before working, I studied at a small university. Though not the best student on
paper, qualitatively I excelled, receiving exemplar test and project grades. I
was heavily passionate about teaching, designing course materials and
curriculum proposals, TAing, and even teaching a course on Proof Theory in Coq.
My interests in functional programming led to type theory, intuitionistic
logic, category theory, recursion theory, etc. As these subjects not offered at
my university, I self-supplemented my education.  In 2015, I took part in the
Oregon Programming Language Summer School, where it struck me that all students
and I had an almost identical set of interests — not just programing languages,
but proof theory, linguistics, philosophy, and music. I began to realize just
how connected these fields were.

After Google, I had time for my other interests and thought. Disillusioned with
the societal value of tech, I asked myself, "how can I use my skills to make a
better world?"  I had become more critical and intentional. During my gap year,
I found myself studying. I turned my love of languages into a C1 German
certificate. I worked through undergraduate texts in linguistics, interested in
semantics and interactions with morphosyntax and pragmatics. My propensity for
scholarship, love for teaching, and new direction answered my question: with my
abilities in formal systems and love of language, I can be a great educator and
unique researcher.

A shift to the language means re-imagining how my interest in Logic can be
directed back onto humanity. In the hunt for Linguistics programs with an
emphasis on theory, I found the Masters of Logic at Universiteit van Amsterdam.
It had not occurred to me that I could study at a department in the
intersection of all these interests.

At UvA I could directly investigate my eclectic interests with equally eclectic
peers from all over the world. The course catalog reads like my to-do list. The
program's strong research focus tells could prepare me well for my goal of a
career in academics; it also reflects the individual and autodidactic character
of the department. At a traditional Linguistics program, I would have to take
undergraduate courses missing from my background. At UvA, I could use the
background I have to dive right into the intersection of Logic and Language.
And because of the program's nature, I'll be left with a more diverse set of
directions for an eventual PhD. Perhaps I will find myself moving back to
computation; perhaps deeper into linguistics. Either way, the Masters of Logic
is the perfect place for me to realize my goals.
